(proud music)
(stars hum as they appear)
VO: Here we stand,
on the shoulders of giants.
These are our words
and our sacred charge.
Greatness is the foundation of
our world.
Greatness let us survive
centuries of strife.
Tame the world to our will,
and spread across the stars
at the speed of light.
That same greatness may be in
you.
Now it's time to find out.
Your Academies have nominated
you
for your ambition,
your drive, your potential for
greatness.
It's time to prove yourself
worthy
in the Sol Invictus games...
You and your team will
be cast across the stars
to a pre-selected planet.
Your mission is a race against
time
and a triumph of will.
You are to set up camp
establish a foothold for your
Academy
and use all the tools at your
disposal.
You are to search the sky and
pinpoint
out of all the stars in the sky
which is Earth's sun: Sol.
But be warned: only one team can
win
and each Academy has sent their
best
and brightest to compete against
you.
Your team Captain will lead you.
Your Astronomer will search the
skies.
And your team must form a
cohesive unit
to have any hope of victory.
We're strong together, broken
apart.
Eternal glory awaits the winner.
Use all the tools and wits you
have
to prove your greatness.
But move quickly.
Only the victorious team may
return home.
The cosmos are dark and
dangerous.
There's no room for mediocrity.
Return a champion or not at all.
Winning is the only rule.
(powerful machinery roars to
life)
VO: Welcome to Sol Invictus...
(deafening roar)
We have to turn it off!
What about the rest of them?
They haven't made it out yet!
Leave 'em! The Slip Gate's gonna
collapse!
(machinery roars angrily)
I can fix this!
Take this!
(roaring machinery)
(crash)
(ears ringing)
They're still inside!
Look out!
That's all I can do!
Clear out! Run!
(screaming)
(machine turbulence builds)
(BANG)
(ears ringing)
(faint breeze)
(tenuous music)
Okay listen up.
Something must have happened to
the gate.
The rest of our teams haven't
come through.
Am I the only Team Captain?
Eli?
What are you doing here?
I came out.
With Virgo Academy.
Is anyone here a Team Engineer?
What's your name?
Ira. From Aries Academy.
Come with me.
(low machine rumbling)
The rest of my team,
they hadn't come through yet!
My brother was with them.
Mine too. Listen to me, Ira.
Can you get the rest of my team
through?
I don't know. I've never
worked a Slip Gate before.
They don't teach us how.
I need you to try. Try hard.
I still have a competition to
win.
I think...
I think it's broken on our end.
(machinery roars)
Hey!
Pick it up.
What?
You're a Team Chronicle.
You need to record this!
There's nothing to record.
My team didn't make it through.
There's enough of my team to
compete.
We need a Chronicle to prove our
win.
You're one of us now, shrimp.
My name's Kit!
Kyle Ian Troy.
Well now you're a Gemini, Kit.
Now pick it up!
Lee?
What about the rest of them?
Leave 'em.
They're just dead weight.
A lot of our team didn't make it
through.
We could use the extra hands.
The rest of you, you're coming
with us.
You're all from Gemini now.
I'm not on your team.
Why should I follow you?
Your teammates aren't coming.
Face it.
Come with us and you may
get credit as part of our team.
Don't want to be one of us? Then
stay.
You can be our competition...
Your call.
(eerie music)
This isn't right.
The games are supposed
to be on a forest world.
Make sure to include
that in your Chronicle.
Judges won't believe this
unless they see proof.
Maybe we'll get a special
honor for winning out here.
Do you think this happened
to the girl's Games too?
We'd have heard wouldn't we?
If we're going to find Sol
first we need to set up,
learn the area.
Scouts, this way. Scour the
place.
Find anything that might be
useful.
I know you!
You're the guy that won last
year.
You won Sol Invictus!
But... You were disqualified
weren't you?
That's right! You were DQ'd for
cheating.
Must have been embarrassing
to have that taken away.
I'd watch what I was saying
if I didn't have my team here
to back me up...
Maybe you should.
You two, you know each other?
We used to.
What class are you?
Astronomer.
I'm Eli from Virgo.
We've already got an Astronomer.
Lee, should we drop this one?
What about you?
Me?
You're scouts now.
Find everything you can about
this place.
But we don't have weapons.
What if it's dangerous?
Then you'll be the first to
know.
Strength in numbers, right?
Rest of you scouts, let's move
out!
I want camp set up before
sunset!
We've got a lot of stars to
search through.
This could go on for miles.
And I think the air is thinner
out here.
(optimistic music)
They're not going to send
any search parties.
They don't send help.
But we're on the wrong planet.
Won't they come looking?
You sure they know something's
wrong?
(deep rumbling)
Did you hear that? Listen...
Eli, wait!
(tense music)
(sweeping music)
An ocean?!
I've never seen a real one
before...
How much do you think
this is worth back home?
Hard to tell.
It could go on forever.
But it's fresh water that they
need.
What should we do about the
Geminis?
Should we run?
Then what?
Don't say that to me!
What do you mean there's no
food?
You're the Chef.
It's your job to make sure
everyone is fed!
I know that.
It's just: all our food
was with the Porters.
I've got a few essentials but
nothing else.
There's not enough for
everyone...
(creature snarl)
(twig snaps)
(animal breathing nearby)
(creatures chirping)
(creatures hissing)
(creatures communicating)
(creatures growls)
(ominous music)
(creature growls angrily)
(child screams)
(creatures roar, children
scream)
Kit! What are you doing?!
Record this!
(sounds of chaos in camp)
We have to go!
If we get to water maybe they
can't swim!
I'm not going out there!
If we get to the ocean we might
make it!
We can't make it!
(screams and roars in
background)
(gasping)
(creatures and screams in
distance)
(tragic music)
(frantic splashing)
(creatures roar in distance)
(eerie music)
(branches snap)
You made it! How?
Spent the night in a tree.
Those - whatever they are -
hunters
lost interest in me a few hours
ago.
Took the rest and left.
It's still running!
(screaming from camera)
Maybe we can see... what
happened.
No one should see what those
things do.
Just the four of us?
We're all that made it?
What are you doing?!
You can't just leave.
Look what staying in a group
got the rest of them.
I'm going solo.
I got to camp first so this
stuff is mine.
That's not fair you were
the first to run too!
This stuff is mine!
You want to prove it, shrimp?
My name is Kit!
Keep quiet!
We're not splitting up.
If the Geminis can put
together a team so can we.
They didn't know about
the Hunters but now we do.
We don't even have half a team.
You know the rules...
There's still a team
as long as there's a Captain.
I know the rules.
You're an Astronomer.
I don't have to listen to you.
Don't listen to me then.
Listen to Tyl.
He's the only Team Captain now.
What are you doing!?
I want as many eyes watching
my back as possible.
The best chance we have
is if we stick together, right?
Yeah but-
Then you have to force them into
a team!
But I'm not a Captain!
(hopeful music)
You are now.
So start acting like it.
The games are over!
There's gotta be someone
here with a communicator.
I'm calling home.
If someone was out here
we'd have seen them.
We're alone.
Then what are we supposed to do?
We still have a telescope.
We followed the Geminis because
they were supposed to win
and get us picked up.
We'll just do the same.
And those Hunters?
We'll stick to the shore
so we can see them coming.
Maybe they can't swim.
Scorpius team is still out
there...
They'll finish what those
Hunters started.
I'm safer hiding on my own.
Do me a favor and stay away from
me.
Just because we're in this
together doesn't mean we're a team.
I'm only following you
because you have the scope.
I don't think so...
Tyl, the lens is cracked.
What?!
See? Crack runs the whole
length.
Great! You couldn't spot shit
with that!
Now what, Team Captain!?
(distant explosion)
Rescue party!
(machinery howls in distance)
Do you see anything!?
(ominous music)
Guys?
We're not alone out here...
What do you mean?
See for yourself.
Doesn't look like a rescue
party.
Should we talk to him?
I don't know.
I've heard stories about
strange people off-world.
What's he doing here?
Whatever you do, you better
hurry.
(Kit screams)
Where are you from!?
Scorpius? Virgo? Corona?
I'm not from any of those!
Did you kill somebody who was
and take his gear?
It's nothing like that!
I'll be the judge of that!
You don't know what
you're doing! Let go of me!
You don't know what you're
doing!
You can't trust the other
Academies!
I know! But he's not from an
Academy.
How'd you get here?
I was late for the start so
they just sent me through.
Did they say anything about
trouble with the Gates?!
No it was business as usual.
Why?
Do you have a communicator?
My teammates have all that.
Where's my team?
They didn't make it.
You can be sad later.
We need to find a way home.
Do you have any equipment we can
use?
It was all broken when I
got here so I dropped it.
Where did you leave it?
There was nothing worthwhile
left.
I'm positive.
We'll be the judge of that.
(hopeful music)
There it is.
That's close enough!
(energy gun charging)
(ominous music)
Where's the rest of your team?
I hid.
The rest didn't.
But it looks like my fortunes
have turned.
Step back.
How'd you get a gun through the
Gate?
Made it with his stuff.
That's all the valuables the
half-wit left.
Gate must have ruined the rest.
But you seem like a guy
with a lot more to give.
What do you want?
Your telescope for starters.
Mine needs some parts
and you're gonna give them to
me.
Is this all in your party?
You got a camp nearby?
You're gonna give me all your
belongings
and I'll consider letting
you live to be rescued.
We're dead without our stuff
and you know it.
Not my problem.
No. You can't have it.
Show me your camp or I can just
kill you and find it myself!
(gun charges louder)
He's a kid!
He'll just die on his own
anyway.
You need parts and so do we.
Does your telescope have a lens?
Put it in ours and we can work
together.
We can all go home tonight.
(gun powers down)
Tell your friend to come over.
(ocarina music)
You didn't bring a tent
but you brought that?
It helps me when I'm nervous.
Tyl, you're Team Captain.
You get first try.
(telescope interface boots up)
(hopeful music)
Let me show you how it's done!
There it is.
(negative)
What?!
This thing is broken!
You rigged it!
Would we really rig it to cheat
ourselves?
We can't do this without
the rest of our teams.
We need their equipment.
What else can we do? We have to
try.
(negative beeps)
I have no idea where Sol is. Do
you?
(negative beeps)
Why can't you just find it?
We have no tools!
No idea where we are
and no idea where our sun is
hiding!
You're so smart?
Find it yourself.
(negative beeps)
Can I sleep in here?
(lonely music)
(negative beeps)
Come on, Kit.
We need to rest.
(negative beeps)
Come on Kit, we'll look again
tomorrow.
(negative beeps)
Do you think rescue ships
will scout this area soon?
I don't think they know
anything's wrong.
Even if they did
it could take months for them to
find us.
Maybe years...
We'll just have to survive
long enough to win.
They put us in teams
for the best chance of survival.
We're gonna keep doing it that
way.
Hal, you're a cook right?
It's your job to make sure we
can eat.
But there's nothing out there!
I can't work like this!
None of us should have to.
We all have to pickup duties
we didn't want.
Adrian, you're offense?
Find anything you can out here.
Especially water...
I'm Security against other
teams.
That makes me second in command.
You can't reassign me.
All the other teams are dead.
You're a Scout now.
Lex, you're a Technician.
Kit, you're a Chronicle?
Keep recording.
If we do get back you're the
only one
that can prove we didn't cheat.
We're all a team now.
(lonely music)
Gone...
It's all gone.
There has to be good water
somewhere.
We just have to find it.
What are we supposed to do till
then?
Stop sweating?
I can't keep going on like this.
He's got water!
What?
There! In his jacket!
I don't have any water!
If I did I wouldn't share it
with you...
His lips are wet.
You think I've got water?
Try and take it.
See what happens.
Howard, wait!
(eerie music)
Don't drink that!
You're gonna make it worse!
It's fresh...
Fresh! It's fresh!
Fresh water!
Can you imagine what
this is worth back home?
They could stop drilling the
moon.
And Europa...
This could change everything!
(laughter)
How could they have missed this?
The Gate must have been built
before the oceans dried.
They weren't looking.
(splashing)
(hopeful music)
(screams outside)
Lex!
(telescope buzzing)
Hold him down!
Kit! Water now!
Kit, come on!
(gasping, coughing)
What happened?
I don't know. I don't know...
I was just trying to find Sol
and the damn thing shocked me!
Nice job putting it together.
You trying to kill me?!
What's this for?
Part of the scope is open.
You were trying to cheat!
You tried tricking it
to think you found Sol!
But scopes are tamper proof!
Yeah it shocked him in defense!
Does it still work!?
(scope powers up)
Yeah.
We should throw him out.
Before he pulls something like
this again.
Lex?
Do it! I dare you!
You need me as much as I need
your stuff.
That's what I thought.
Thanks for the water!
You're not letting him get
away with that are you?
You have to kick him out!
I'm not doing that!
What if he cheats again, or does
worse?
What will you do?
Maybe we'll need his help! I
don't know-
What do you know?!
Have you ever led anyone?
How long have you even been a
Team Captain?
No.
You can't handle this.
(tenuous music)
Look for a clearing.
Any opening big enough to gather
logs.
But we have a light,
we don't need to build a fire.
Not for that!
Then what?
We're not making a fire, kid.
It's for a boat.
Why?
We're leaving.
Do you really want to stay
with those Hunters?
What if this is the only land?
You'd rather wait here to be
eaten?
Look...
This can't be the only land.
Someone's gotta be out there.
And we can find 'em.
And contact home.
Now go.
Find logs. Get good ones.
(slithering sounds)
(creature roars)
(screams)
(frantic music)
(gasps)
I can't hold on!
Lex!
I'm slipping!
Somebody help me!
Anybody!
Help!
(creature hisses)
Hang on!
It's gonna pull us in too!
Help!
(creature hisses)
(screams)
(gun charges)
(BANG)
(creature screams)
(creature flees)
(panicked gasping)
(pained winces)
(tense music)
Tyl, help us!
We need your help! Hurry!
(pained screams)
(screams)
I think he's poisoned.
It's killing him.
(gasping)
What do we do?!
Right here!
The med-pack!
Here!
The venom's bad.
I don't know if he'll make it!
Here, you clean the wound!
(tense music)
(screams)
Where's the sting kit!?
I'm looking!
Oh no. It's broken!
Are there more?
Hurry!
This is our last one.
Wait! We gotta save it.
What?!
What if one of us gets stung?
He's right.
Use it now and you won't
have one for yourself later.
But he's hurt now!
Use it, Tyl!
(snap, medical hiss)
(screams subside)
(music fades away)
Think there could be
more of those things, Lex?
If we're stuck here
it's not long till we find out.
We're not going to
make it out of here are we?
(pained moans)
(loud groaning)
(pained screams)
How long will this last?
(loud yell)
(creatures howl in distance)
(howls, closer)
They're coming!
(tense music)
(loud moans)
(creatures call in response)
I'm not staying here. Not again!
Me neither!
He'll bring the Hunters right to
us!
(loud, pained moans)
Leave him!
Someone has to stay and keep him
quiet
or they'll find him for sure!
(Hunters howl, getting closer)
Eli's the only one that
doesn't do his job anymore.
He's least essential.
Hey! I-
I record, Hal cooks, Lex fixes
things
and Tyl saves people.
Have you found Sol yet?
No but I try every night!
He's right, Eli.
You're the least important.
Stay here with Adrian.
Okay...
Lex, is that gun still in your
pack?
No, stay out of my pack!
Leave it! No time!
(Hunters howl in distance)
(ominous music)
(Hunters sniffing nearby)
(Hunters calling)
There! At our camp.
(Hunters sniffing nearby)
(electronic beeps)
What are you doing?
(electronics powering up)
(Hunters roar)
(Hunters howling)
If they go after Eli then
they won't come after us.
(Hunters roaring)
(tenuous music)
You tried to kill me!
Don't pity yourself too much.
You look fine...
Whatever you did to chase them
off worked.
I didn't do anything!
Something kept them away...
(light humming)
The light!
What?
Maybe they're afraid of it.
We have only seen them at night.
Maybe the light hurts them.
Burns them.
Do you think it's just the
lantern?
I don't know.
But it's not gonna last
forever...
(rising music)
As long as there are people on
this island
there will be a fire...
Are we sure this will work?
Will fire really keep them away?
I don't know.
When will we know!?
When the Hunters come and eat us
or not!
We should get some rest.
I can't sleep like this.
Me neither.
(haunting ocarina music)
Where's Lex?
Who cares.
We're almost out of wood.
Who's coming with?
I can't go back out there.
(anxious music)
(ominous music)
(Hunters calling in distance)
(Hunters sniffing, calling
nearby)
(more Hunters gathering)
(Hunter nearby)
(twig snaps)
(Hunter roars)
(Hunter approaches)
(new Hunter roars)
(Hunter roars)
(electric pulse)
(Hunters scream and flee)
Guess you were right about the
light.
(Hunters roar in distance)
(Hunter attacks)
(electric blast)
What? What happened?!
We found something!
I've never seen one before
but...
I think it's a Storm runner!
Can't be! That would mean it's
Over two hundred years old...
(mysterious music)
Where's the rest of it?
It's still intact!
What is?
The computer core, it's still
functional!
But the control element's gone.
Without that it's useless.
Just needs a jump-start huh?
This is a waste of our time,
Tyl.
I didn't bring you here for
nostalgia.
I need help carrying something.
What are we supposed to do with
this junk?!
Look how old it is!
That's not junk you're looking
at.
There's a Trans-Conduit relay in
there.
You sure?
Checked it myself. Still works.
I know what you're thinking.
But if we screw this up
it could ruin the telescope.
Isn't it worth the risk?
(mysterious music)
This was a Hyperion ship...
If the Hyperions couldn't
survive here
how are we supposed to?
(lonely music)
A Trans-Conduit relay lets any
computer
connect to the network
that links every system.
If we hook it to the scope
we might be able to
send a message back to Earth.
Let me do it.
It's not that simple.
Overload the conductor and
the whole thing's cooked!
That's why I'm doing it...
How long will it take to contact
home?
It's not as easy as calling mom
and dad...
Connecting with Terra-Net only
lets us
transmit messages to individual
addresses.
If a message actually makes
it...
They'll have to record their own
reply
and hope it finds its way
back to the scope.
Which it won't.
If someone responds
we can triangulate our position
and have them send help.
Here we go...
(computer beeps in error)
Did you break it?
Can we fix it?
It's fine, I just need my
splicer.
Where is it?
My pack, I'll get it.
No you keep working on it.
Howard?
(tenuous music)
What are you doing with that?!
Shut your goddamn mouth!
What's the matter?
Day 1: Assessed Slip Gate.
Unable to establish return
portal
for more than three seconds.
Replaced coupler. No
improvement.
Day 8: Gemini telescope battery
unable to jump-start Gate.
Day 20: Energy source to power
Gate
needs to be larger.
Day 30: Found crashed ship.
Should be able to salvage parts
to stabilize Gate.
He has been sneaking off
and working on the Slip Gate all
this time!
Can you fix it?
No.
We don't have the parts.
Why didn't you tell us?
Because he didn't
want to bring us with him!
He was going to leave us here
so that he can go home
and win the games on his own.
I would have sent help when I
got back!
You've been lying to us this
whole time!
How do you know so much
about Slip Gates, Lex?
Nobody's allowed to learn how
they work-
You did this, didn't you?
Didn't you!?
You sabotaged the Slip Gate
network...
You rigged it so we'd be stuck
on this backwater planet
with no chance of winning.
But you did too good of a job.
Your team crashed the network so
bad
that it sucked everyone in.
You fell into your own trap.
Is he right?
Tell us!
Why'd you do it!?
Because I have to win!
If I don't bring back that
Hyperion coin...
You wouldn't understand.
I had to do it!
Everything that's happened...
Everything!
It's all your fault.
That night with the Hunters
you tried killing me to hide the
journal.
Instead I saved you!
Where would we be if we didn't
learn what light can do?!
And the rest?
This is Sol Invictus.
Winning's the only rule.
They should have known
what they were getting in to.
Wrap it however you want.
If you hadn't done that, we'd be
home now!
And innocent people would still
be alive.
I feel sorry for you.
What are we gonna do with him?
Can't trust him anymore.
Before you do anything rash,
afraid I need him over here.
The relay's almost done.
Go.
(relay powers up)
(relay processes)
(error beeps)
(power fades)
(device boots up)
(processing beeps)
The signal's too weak.
That's as good as we're gonna
get.
That won't get the messages
half way to Earth!
Then we'll try anyway!
(lonely music)
This is Lex of Scorpius
to anyone at command.
Hi, Mom and Dad...
By now you've probably heard
from school.
We've no idea where we are.
Nobody does.
My assignment
did more than we could have
imagined.
Trapping me on the same
unknown planet as the rest of
them.
Why did I come out here?
Was I wrong about all this?
Everything I did,
I did for the mission.
(introspective music swells)
(thunderstorm in distance)
(hopeful music)
Please respond.
Please...
Say anything.
I'll win.
One way or the other.
I can't wait to get home.
I love you guys.
See you soon.
Say anything...
I just want to hear from you.
(telescope relay boots)
Let's send these things!
Enter the address here.
This is it!
(computer processing)
That's it?
What were you expecting,
an instant response?
It could take hours
for them to reach everyone.
Then leave it on all night.
I want to know the instant we
get a reply!
(lonely music)
I wonder what it looks like from
up there.
From all those other fires.
Want to check yours?
That's enough.
Time to turn it off.
Wait!
I want to know when they hear
from me.
If we leave it on any longer
we'll kill the battery.
No!
Wait! I want to hear back!
Turn it off or we're really
screwed!
Give it to me!
Let it go!
Give it to me.
So you're gonna shoot me now!?
Give me the gun, Kit!
No!
Kit, give me the gun!
Kit!
Give me the gun!
No!
(arrow shoots)
(gasping)
What'd you do!?
It was an accident!
I- I didn't...
What have you done?!
Eli, please just hold still.
Just give me a second!
Eli!
(gasping, sounds fade away)
(failing heartbeat)
(sorrowful music)
(forlorn ocarina music)
Of course it was his fault!
Okay! You're right. But...
He didn't mean to-
He feels even worse about it
than you do.
You can't make him sleep outside
forever.
You got us into this mess,
it's your job to get us out.
You're in charge now.
(tense music)
Time to stop waiting.
(telescope boots)
(processing beeps)
(energetic beeping)
No way...
Message received?
Message received?!
Message received!
We got one! We got a reply!
Somebody sent a response!
Somebody heard from us!?
(whistles)
Tyl, somebody sent a reply!
(processing beeps)
Eli VO: Hi, Mom and Dad.
We haven't received a response.
It's one of our own messages
bounced back to us.
It didn't even make it out of
the system.
(Eli's message plays in
background)
No one received any messages.
No one ever will!
I can't believe we thought
this thing would work.
(telescope shuts off)
Wait a second!
Just one of the messages bounced
back.
Others could still make it
through!
But if you break the telescope
we'll never know!
To think I let you
get my hopes up, Hal.
You couldn't even check the
message.
You just started dancing
around like a fat fool!
You broke my gun.
We lost our food because of you!
How could anybody be so stupid
and yet still be alive?!
You've gotta be the most hapless
oaf
I've ever seen in my life!
(angry yelling)
Stop it! Hal, stop!
(grunting and yelling)
(angry yelling)
I shouldn't be here.
I want to go home.
(lonely music)
I want to go home!
(crying)
None of this was supposed to
happen...
What was I thinking?
(sniffling)
(crying)
We can't build a boat!
Haven't you seen what's
out there? We'd never make it!
We're trapped!
It's our only option.
Would you rather die here
or trying to find help?!
There's no one out there to help
us!
It's up to us to make it back!
You put me in charge, remember?
Or do you think you can do
better?
Tyl might listen to you, but I'm
not.
I'm not going out there!
I'm not making a boat!
Then you can live on your own.
If you're not working
I'm kicking you out of my camp!
This wouldn't be such a problem
if you hadn't murdered our only
Astronomer!
(angry yells)
Hey!
You look like shit.
What's going on?
(thunderstorm outside)
Here that long, huh?
Any more ideas how we got here?
No.
There is
one other option.
Every year the Board of
Governors
sends out a judge in each team
to observe.
No one ever knows about it.
The judges pick a contestant
from every team,
make sure they can trust him,
and assign him to report back on
the games.
Sometimes I bet they even rig
it.
How'd you find this out?
I talked it out of someone last
year.
Now.
No one can come home till
someone's won.
These judges do it all the time.
Pop home to report then slip
right back.
Say they'd gone to
the bathroom or something.
I know how to contact the Gate
Ops.
Tell 'em you're a student judge,
and they'll bring you home.
If you were right
I would have heard about it.
How can we believe you?
Because Shrimp,
that's how I got home first.
That's how I cheated.
I told the Slip Gate Operators
that I was a judge.
When I came out I raised my
scope
and said I'd found Sol.
The Gate Ops don't talk but
the judges figured it out.
There's no way to contact home
or I'd have done it.
There's one.
That Hyperion ship
still has a working core.
Your scope is programmed for the
Gate Ops.
If you run it through the ship
it'll let you call for a
pick-up.
No.
The control element's missing.
We'd never find it out here.
You knew a way home
and you didn't tell us?
What were you waiting for?!
When they realize we cheated
they'll come after us
with everything they have.
We'd be better off staying here.
You made it back...
It took
everything my family had to get
me back in.
I'd never do it again either.
If not for all this.
But look at all that's happened.
Wouldn't they understand?
Believe me,
they won't care.
If you try and explain
beforehand
you'll just blow your cover.
Is it really that bad?
When you stand before them
and see your entire future
slipping away.
Remember how you felt today.
Cause whoever gives them their
name
that's the one they'll come
after worst.
He's done.
We'll do it.
No.
No we won't.
I'm in charge now remember?
I just want to go home.
More than anything.
I'm sorry. I am.
I want to go home too
but there's another way
off this planet and I'm gonna
find it.
You can't have the scope. I'm
sorry.
Wait, Lex-
No!
(nervous breathing)
(anxious music)
Where's the scope?!
It's gone!
Could he have gone to look for
Sol?
We gotta find him!
He could be anywhere by now. How
can we-
Quiet!
Listen.
(footsteps heard through camera)
Your camera's still connected to
it.
I see something.
Hal? Hal?
Hal, what's going on!?
I'm taking the scope.
I won't let your ruin this. I'm
going home!
But we need the scope.
You can't just take it!
You know we'll never find Sol!
But at least if I call home
we can finally leave.
What about us?
Somebody has to take the fall!
Don't we get a say in it?!
I'm sorry,
but I don't care about the
tournament.
I can live with the
consequences,
my family needs me home.
You wouldn't understand.
It's easy for you to talk big
when you're the one
running with our telescope!
What would you know?
I'm doing it to help someone.
You guys have never thought
about anybody but yourselves!
No...
(Hunters calling nearby)
Hal! Do you have a light?
You need to get back to camp.
Hurry!
I think I hear something.
Where are you, Hal?
I'm in the forest.
That's their forest.
That's where they live!
Listen! Hide.
We're coming for you right now.
(Hunter roars)
Hal, run!
(roars and screams)
(Hunters roaring and feeding)
(static)
(tragic music)
You had your chance!
You don't know what you're
doing!
Why should we trust you now?
Because I know what to do.
I'm getting us home.
It's Tyl's team.
I'm with him.
If I do this,
do you promise you'll get us
home?
I promise.
It's not safe to split up.
We'll just have to comb the
whole forest.
(sounds of movement in brush)
(birds take flight)
No point delaying the
inevitable.
(eerie music)
It's quiet here.
I don't like it.
(tense music)
There it is.
Let's make a break for it.
Wait.
Whatever did this could still be
here.
(tense music)
(yells)
The telescope!
Is it okay?!
It's fine!
But look...
(mysterious music)
I think-
I think they took Hal down
there.
Can you see anything?
There are tunnels inside.
Long ones...
I can't see the ends.
It must be where they go during
the day.
There could be a whole world
down there.
Even bigger than the island.
Then let's keep it down there.
(fire crackles loudly)
This is the only way out.
Are you sure?
Unless those things can fly.
Do you think it'll be able to
stop 'em?
I don't know.
(Hunters calling in forest)
(Hunters roar)
(exciting music)
Stop! Listen!
They're not coming!
(Hunters roar angrily in
background)
It worked.
It works!
Are we sure it'll last all
night?
I hope.
We'll have to keep the fire
going.
I'll take tomorrow.
Then Lex. Then you, Kit.
We'll keep them trapped forever.
I wonder if they'll start to eat
each other
when they realize they're never
leaving.
(Hunters continue to roar
angrily)
(lone roar)
Are you sure you're ready?
Then let's go home.
(hopeful music)
The core's still intact.
All we need is the control
element.
No.
Not like this.
I can't go home like that.
It's time to go home!
(camera beeps)
(ship powers up)
(ship fails, powers down)
Tyl, that's not gonna work.
Main power's offline.
Then what can we do?
I can do it.
Let me try.
One wrong wire
and he could fry the whole
computer.
If he ever wanted to
screw us over it would be now.
Can you get it to work?
No!
I'm sorry but how can we trust
him?
Because.
He's better than that.
Fix it.
(ship powers up)
(ship echoes with power)
(noise evens out)
(relay powers up)
(electronic communications
sounds)
(voice emerges from static)
Slip Gate Operator: Come in,
this is Slip Gate Control.
Hello?
Gate Op: Who's this? Identify
yourself.
I'm a student judge in the
Sol Invictus games.
Requesting immediate transit
back to Earth
for a report.
Gate Op: Sol Invictus? That was
weeks ago.
We thought you were all dead.
We're not.
Not yet.
Gate Op: I don't believe it.
We need to get you back for
debrief.
What's your name?
My name?
Gate Op: Every portal needs
a record on file
for who authorized it.
Especially student judges.
Give me your name.
Kit. Kit of Capricorn.
I take full responsibility.
I need a portal back to Earth
immediately.
The Gate here was damaged.
I can't get a portal up.
I need you to open one on your
end.
We can still activate one from
Earth.
All I need is your planet code.
Give it to me and we'll
have you home by nightfall.
Can't you tell me where I am?
We don't know where you landed.
Now we can open a portal
but only if we know which one to
use.
Without that there's
no way to get you home.
Then open all the Gates in the
system!
Do you have any idea how many
that is?
The resources that would waste?!
You know we can't do that.
What about a rescue party?
Can you send anyone?
We can't.
You could be in any corner of
the galaxy.
What are you saying?
You know what I'm saying.
If we don't know what planet
you're on,
there's nothing we can do.
I know this is hard to hear
but you're not coming home.
I'm sorry.
Gate Control out...
(static)
We got so close...
Now we're even further
than when we started.
How could this have happened to
us?
I'm sorry.
I'm really sorry.
We're never going home.
What is home?
This isn't.
It could never be.
The fire's almost out.
Maybe you should put some wood
on it.
What's the point?
Where are you going?
Does it even matter anymore?!
(thunder rolling in)
(rain sizzles on fire)
(lonely music)
My name is Tyl of Libra.
The date?
I don't even know.
If you found this telescope then
you're
probably stranded here too.
If that's the case,
then I'm sorry.
My only advice is-
(computer beeps frantically)
No...
(computer processing)
Message VO: Eli?
Eli, I just saw your message.
Where are you? What happened?
We're so worried.
Your father and I
have been trying to find you
and no one will tell us
anything.
They just said there was an
accident
with the Slip Gates.
We thought you were lost...
I am so glad you're okay!
We'll never give up on finding
you.
Even if we have to search
every planet ourselves.
We will find you.
I'll see you soon, son.
I love you.
(static)
What do you want me to do?
I don't know what to tell her!
If I send a response...
Wait...
Send a response!
Trace that message!
Point of origin.
(computer beeps)
Ignore!
(music builds)
You're all the way over there?
(music rises)
(negative beeps)
Oh come on!
Not yet you're not! Come on!
(computer loading)
(sweeping music)
(energetic beeping)
(cheers)
(reverent music)
There you are...
Wait.
If you're Sol...
You can be my reference point!
Triangulate position.
Point of reference.
Using that star.
As Sol...
(processing)
Cygnus B-7.
Cygnus B-7!
(anxious music)
Gate Op: Gate Control.
Come in this is Gate Control.
I'm a Sol contestant!
I need immediate transit-
Gate Op: Kid, I'm sorry.
But unless you've got a planet
code
I've got nothing else-
Cygnus B-7!
We're on Cygnus B-7!
Gate Op: Cygnus B-7...
Cygnus B-7?!
You're all the way out there!?
That's an H Class planet.
Unsafe for human habitation!
How did you-
Never mind! Listen!
Get to the Slip Gate as fast as
you can.
I just sent through the
activation command.
A portal will be up soon.
Wait! You gotta delay it!
I have to find my friends first!
That gate's not stable
enough to hold for long!
A few minutes tops and
it's gonna collapse for good!
Come home now while you still
can!
(building music)
(sweeping music)
Take Adrian and get to the Slip
Gate!
What about you?!
I gotta find Lex!
We don't have any time! You go
ahead!
No! We're all going home!
Give him to me!
Go!
(Slip Gate crackles loudly)
Let's go! Hurry!
(Hunters roar in distance)
Did you hear that?
Don't worry about it!
They do that every night
when they're burned by the fire!
Should be ready in a few
minutes!
(more Hunter cries)
Wait!
That one didn't come from the
forest.
How did they-
(more Hunters roar)
Kit! You didn't-
I'm sorry!
I didn't think we'd make it.
It's not gonna form in time!
(ominous music)
If we run we might
be able to get away from them!
The portal's gonna collapse!
It can't re-open after this!
We can try and fix it
later but right now we have to-
(Hunters closing in)
Run!
No!
We're not running anymore!
You're going home.
What?!
No we can't leave you!
I'll buy you some time.
Take Adrian with you.
Take Adrian!
Take it!
(rising music)
Go home.
What are you doing, Tyl?!
Have you even thought about
this?!
(sweeping, hopeful music)
Go home, guys.
(Gate crackles with energy)
(Hunters roar in background)
(rising, tense music)
(Hunters in distance)
(loud explosion)
(Hunters roar angrily)
(Hunters attack)
(Gate explodes with life)
(Gate explodes with energy)
(silence)
VO: Here we stand,
on the shoulders of giants.
These are our words.
And our sacred charge.
Greatness is the foundation of
our world.
Greatness let us survive
centuries of strife.
Tame the physical world to our
will.
And spread across the stars
at the speed of light.
That same greatness may be in
you.
Now, it's time to find out...
(rising music)
(hopeful music)
Welcome to Sol Invictus...